ADD: code of conduct to governance documents (#31)
pyOpenSci/governance: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

# pyOpenSci Community Code of Conduct

pyOpensci is dedicated to creating a welcoming, supportive and diverse 
community around the open source Python tools that drive open
science. We do this through a combination of community building, 
mentorship, peer review of software and education and outreach. 

We are building the pyOpenSci community in a way that promotes fairness 

> and justice for all particular focus on supporting those from 

Reviewer: 'justice for all, with a particular'

Author: fixed!

traditionally marginalized groups. We want every member of our community 
to thrive; we want to make a positive impact on our community members work 
and on the work of others. 

### What this code of conduct defines 

Our Code of Conduct defines expected behavior 
and guidelines that help create such a community.

Anyone who participates in a pyOpenSci activity either online or in person is expected to show respect and courtesy to others in all interactions. These interactions may occur in a variety of locations including:

* in GitHub repositories
* in our Slack channel
* in our Discourse online forum 
* during in-person events, 
* when representing pyOpenSci in public, 

> * or in any event online or in person where pyOpenSci is involved.  

Reviewer: "is involved" is vague. This can be ok, as long as we are prepared to handle situations in spaces run by another org where pyOpenSci is participating.

Author: oh shoot. i'm not sure . I was thinking say - we go to scipy and hold a BOF. it's a pyOpenSci session but scipy owns the meeting. or if we are representing pyopensci at a scientific python event.  but realistically can i uphold our COC at other events? probably not?

Author: TODO: possible reword - where pyOpenSci is leading the event. 
```suggestion
* or in any event online or in person where pyOpenSci is leading the event.  
```

Reviewer: propose changing 'pyopensci is involved' to 'pyopensci is leading'

### Abusive behavior

**Harassment:** including offensive verbal comments related to gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion, as well as sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual or romantic attention.

**Threats:** threatening someone physically or verbally. For example, threatening to publicize sensitive information about someone’s personal life.

### Unwelcoming behavior

#### Blatant acts and micro-aggressions
Blatant micro-aggressions involve making statements that assume 
negative characteristics in a blanket fashion because of someone's identification 
with a particular group. We take micro-aggressions seriously,  especially 
important when they target traditionally marginalized groups (e.g., 
explicitly racist, sexist, homophobic, or transphobic statements).

 > For example, arguing that some people are less intelligent because 
 > of their gender, race, religion. 
 

> #### Subtle and unintentional micro-aggressions 

Reviewer 2: Repeated, subtle, and unintentional micro-agressions? 

I think it is worth trying to clearly signal in this section that there is obviously bad behaviour

Author: thank you! updated the heading there!

Being especially or repeatedly unpleasant: for example, if we’ve received reports from multiple pyOpenSci users, team members, or collaborators of agitating, rude, or especially distracting behavior over an extended period of time.

## Scope in which the pyOpenSci code of conduct is applied

pyOpenSci community members are held to the standards outlined in this 
code of conduct when interacting in the pyOpenSci Slack or GitHub 
repositories, when interacting in-person at events where they could 
represent pyOpenSci (this is most professional events), in physical spaces 
with other pyOpenSci team members or collaborators, or in any Community 
Initiatives (our fiscal sponsor) space.

In addition, the pyOpenSci community and experience often extends outside 
those spaces—pyOpenSci community members may go on walks together to get 
lunch, attend meetups or conferences as a group, communicate on social 
media, or interact with each other in other communities. 

Abusive or unwelcoming behavior between community members still has a 
profound impact on individuals and on the community when it happens beyond 
our walls. The pyOpenSci Executive Director and the Advisory Council will 

> use our discretion when deciding whether to enforce this code of conduct 

Reviewer: "use our discretion in deciding whether to enforce this code" sounds like we might decide to ignore bad behaviour

Author: i hear you. how would you reword? i think what is hard here is that if the behavior happens away from our organizations activities we'd have to figure out whether it was in violation or not and whether it happened as each party describes. 

Very open to word changes here that send a better message but still allow us to "Decide" in case it's outside of our jurisdiction?

We do not tolerate abusive behavior at pyOpenSci. 
If we witness or receive a report of abusive behavior, we will 
contact the perpetrator to have a conversation with them and verify 
what has transpired. 

We will follow this response protocol:

If we verify abusive behavior:

* They will be removed from the pyOpenSci community
* If applicable, their employment with pyOpenSci will be terminated. 
* Their Slack account will be deactivated, and 
* Permissions will be removed from any pyOpenSci-related repositories and/or accounts. 

The person will not be welcome in any physical or digital spaces covered by the pyOpenSci Code of Conduct.

### Enforcement related to unwelcome behavior 
If we verify unwelcome, but non-abusive behavior, we will have a 
conversation with the person about their behavior. The goal of the conversation will be to ensure that they understand the expectation that they not repeat the behavior or other behaviors that would violate the Code of Conduct a second time. 

### Response protocol steps
The pyOpenSci Executive Director and the Executive Council will use the steps below to respond to reports of code of conduct violations.

> 1. The report will be read carefully to determine whether there has been a code of conduct violation

Reviewer: we might need to do steps 2 and 3 before determining if there has been a CoC violation

Author: good point. i've adjust this now.

2. We will followup with the person who reported the violation 

> 3. We will followup with the community member who violated the code of conduct 

Author: perfect,

## Reporting code of conduct violations

If you see a violation of our code of conduct, [please report it to our 
pyOpenSci Code of Conduct Stewards using this form.](https://forms.gle/7MR7tCpDuprtStWP9) This is a short Google Form that will be sent to 

> any Executive Council member acting as a Code of Conduct Steward (see below for details). Alternatively, if you wish to report to one of the Code of Conduct stewards specifically, email them directly.

Reviewer 2: Here, it might be worth considering being explicit about who this goes to (e.g. naming folks here). If someone is in a position where they need to submit a CoC report, being very transparent and open about who is responding I think would be appreciated

Author: this is a good point. we haven't decided who that is yet @lheagy . i will definitely be on the email (coc@pyopensci.org) but i thought either our executive council @kcranston @tracyteal or some combo of executive and advisory council (which you are on!). I'll bring this up in our board meeting later today.

We are building the pyOpenSci community in a way that promotes fairness 
and justice for all, with a particular focus on supporting those from 
traditionally marginalized / underrepresented groups. We want every member of 
our community to thrive; we want to make a positive impact on our community 
members' work and on the work of others. 

### What this code of conduct defines 

Our Code of Conduct defines expected behavior 
and guidelines that help create such a community.

Anyone who participates in a pyOpenSci activity either online or in person is expected to show respect and courtesy to others in all interactions. These interactions may occur in a variety of locations including:

* in GitHub repositories
* in our Slack channel
* in our Discourse online forum 
* during in-person events, 
* when representing pyOpenSci in public, 
* or in any event online or in person where pyOpenSci is leading the event.  

To make sure that everyone has a common understanding of “show respect and courtesy to each other,” we have adopted the following code of conduct. The code of conduct is enforced by the pyOpenSci Executive Director and the Advisory Council.

> 

Reviewer 3: ED and Advisory Council -> CoC Stewards

Author: i changed the language to this:

The code of conduct is enforced by the pyOpenSci Executive Director and the code of conduct stewardship committee.

which will allow me to ask my new hire to be on the stewardship committee and then one other person?

Being especially or repeatedly unpleasant: for example, if we’ve received 
reports from multiple pyOpenSci users, team members, or collaborators of 
agitating, rude, or especially distracting behavior over an extended period of 
time.

## Scope in which the pyOpenSci code of conduct is applied

pyOpenSci community members are held to the standards outlined in this 
code of conduct when interacting in the pyOpenSci Slack or GitHub 
repositories, when interacting in-person at events where they could 
represent pyOpenSci (this is most professional events), in physical spaces 
with other pyOpenSci team members or collaborators, or in any Community 
Initiatives (our fiscal sponsor) space.

In addition, the pyOpenSci community and experience often extends outside 
those spaces—pyOpenSci community members may go on walks together to get 
lunch, attend meetups or conferences as a group, communicate on social 
media, or interact with each other in other communities. 

Abusive or unwelcoming behavior between community members still has a 
profound impact on individuals and on the community when it happens beyond 
our walls. The pyOpenSci code of conduct stewards will 

> use our discretion when deciding how to respond to reports of such behavior and how to proceed with enforcement which may include potentially remove someone from the pyOpenSci community. We will take into account the 
> impact on the individual community members involved as well as the impact 
> on the community at large.

Author: ```suggestion
use our discretion when deciding how to respond to reports of such behavior and how to proceed with enforcement which may include potentially removing someone from the pyOpenSci community. We will take into account the 
impact on the individual community members involved as well as the impact 
on the community at large.
```

are deemed especially/repeatedly unpleasant (see below).

Being especially or repeatedly unpleasant: for example, if we’ve received 
reports from multiple pyOpenSci users, team members, or collaborators of 
agitating, rude, or especially distracting behavior over an extended period of 
time.

## Scope in which the pyOpenSci code of conduct is applied

pyOpenSci community members are held to the standards outlined in this 
code of conduct when interacting in the pyOpenSci Slack or GitHub 
repositories, when interacting in-person at events where they could 
represent pyOpenSci (this is most professional events), in physical spaces 
with other pyOpenSci team members or collaborators, or in any Community 
Initiatives (our fiscal sponsor) space.

In addition, the pyOpenSci community and experience often extends outside 
those spaces—pyOpenSci community members may go on walks together to get 
lunch, attend meetups or conferences as a group, communicate on social 
media, or interact with each other in other communities. 

Abusive or unwelcoming behavior between community members still has a 
profound impact on individuals and on the community when it happens beyond 

> our walls. The pyOpenSci Executive Director and the Advisory Council will 
> use our discretion when deciding whether to enforce this code of conduct 
> and potentially remove someone from the pyOpenSci community after reports 
> of such behavior happening outside of pyOpenSci, taking into account the 

Author: ```suggestion
our walls. The pyOpenSci code of conduct stewards will 
use our discretion when deciding how to respond to reports of such behavior and how to proceed with enforcement which may include potentially remove someone from the pyOpenSci community. We will take into account the 
```
